hey guys welcome to my channel today I
am going to teach you different tips and
tricks how to understand native speakers
because sometimes they have such axes
that their speech makes no sense to us
non English native speakers so if you're
interested please continue watching
[Music]
now when I was 14 I went to the UK and I
stayed with a local family I went to
local school it was like a two-week trip
and during that trip I realized I do not
understand what people are telling me
because what we learn to school the
English that we've learnt at school was
actually Russian version of the English
language and when it came to the UK and
British people have this very distinct
accent and they use really weird words
sometimes like weird for a Russian
speaker I just couldn't get what they
were telling me the only person I could
interact with with was my host mom
because she really made an effort to
speak like a English language teacher so
like that separating words and what I
wanted to communicate with British kids
I had a lot of trouble because they
didn't want to make this effort and thus
I didn't get what they were saying so
when I came back home I realised I
cannot just continue learning English
than in the way I have and I have to do
something else I have to do something
new and now I'm gonna tell you what I
started to do tip number one practice
listening while reading simultaneously
and you guys are very lucky because now
we have YouTube we have Netflix which
means that you can switch on a video on
YouTube like this one you can just
switch on subtitles on this video thanks
for subtitles and read along that would
help you train your visual part and
train your listening part because you're
gonna see the way I'm opening my mouth
and you're gonna listen to what I'm
saying and then your brain is gonna
connect the two and this will train and
train and train you when I was a kid we
didn't have YouTube we didn't have that
list I even didn't have access to
Internet all the time so what I used to
do I used to sing along to Britney
Spears and you remember the CDs when we
had like a little book coming with a CD
with lyrics for every single song and
that's what I did
just listen to her music because I loved
her and I just sing along I'm reading to
the lyrics the next step that I've taken
when I was 16 I went to the UK and I
realized that Lily Allen who later
became my favorite singer was really
really popular so I bought her a CD and
this is the way I learned British accent
because she sings with a really distinct
British accent and when you sing go on
when you read those lyrics and you
listen to her and you start to
understand British people better advance
tip if you think that this is too fast
like marina you're talking too fast Lily
you're singing too fast Brittany is
singing too fast what you can do you can
slow down the video 2x in YouTube and
you could do it now right here down in
the bottom section see it slowed down
the video 2x my voice will become really
weird but then you would be able to
follow me because sometimes yes I agree
do comments sometimes they tell me I
speak too fast but this is something you
have to get used to because when you
come here nobody will really make an
effort to speak slower just because you
do not understand you will have to play
alone and you will have to just adapt to
whatever is happening and in terms of
accents I would say British accent has
been the most difficult for me because
it was really tough to understand
British and they have a lot of regional
access like in London people would use
one accent then you travel one hour away
from London and it would be a completely
different accent the easiest country to
understand accents is actually Canada
because they have a mix of American and
British and its really really mild so if
you're planning your trip abroad to
study English I would really recommend
Canada check out a school's below a
winger trip my favorite of Silas C and I
also went to I lack myself I like
Toronto and if you guys love music like
I do I recently bought a electric piano
I just sing songs in English and this is
also the way I practice my pronunciation
the way of practice listening skills if
you think that you're advanced you know
what you have to do I try to sing along
Eminem lose yourself
[Music]
but he keeps on forgetting why do you
robot and if you're brave enough you can
record it and put it on your Instagram
and tag me hashtag lingua marina hashtag
lingo trip I'm gonna check it out and
I'm gonna give you my feedback let's try
it
tip number two when native speakers
speak they tend to say one sentence as
one word so they don't say do you want
to grab a coffee yes this is really easy
for you to understand but you have to
learn to understand one sentence as one
word do you want to grab a coffee that
sounds just like one sentence this would
also help me with spoken English because
you have to do the same in order for
people to understand you could you
repeat that tip number three in order to
be able to understand when native
speakers are talking you need to be able
to understand distinct words sometimes
you don't have to understand the whole
sentence you just have to get what are
the most important words in the sentence
and then you're gonna figure out the
meaning so don't worry if you listen to
somebody and there are some words you do
not understand and this applies to
reading as well you don't have to know
every single word and if you feel that
you have to check out every single word
that is new for you don't do that
because if you're reading a book and
like every third word is new then you
won't be reading a book you will be just
consulting your vocabulary and
dictionary all the time your task is to
figure out what are these most important
words in the sentence and the most
important words uh normally nouns
adjectives and verbs there are a lot of
filler words that you don't have to
understand and normally native speakers
pronounce them less louder than the main
words the worst that you don't have to
really get our articles and prepositions
like articles a V and prepositions like
at on to if you don't get them that's
okay and people tend to kind of swallow
them and be ready for that
hello so for example if you would go to
the coffee thing you can just omit all
of the function words and you're gonna
get you won't get cup coffee actually if
you say that native speakers are gonna
get what you're saying
and when native speakers pronounce those
functions were it's really fast do you
want to get a cup of coffee you want to
get a cup of coffee you know what you've
heard you want to get cup coffee and you
don't really hear those function words
and this is how the native speakers
speech works tip number four native
speakers tend to use a lot of filler
words like like like I'm saying this but
like I don't mean this you get it right
so like is everywhere I was like I was
like meditating what you should know is
that like has no actual meaning it
doesn't make any sense in the sentence
it is just used for you to win some time
and think of what you're trying to say
next
sometimes like replaces actual words and
this is when you have to get the meaning
so for example and I was like let's go
and see the movie so in this case I was
like replaces and I said also like is
used when you are uncertain of something
I think he's like a doctor maybe so you
are not sure if he's a doctor as you see
people used like all the time sometimes
it makes sense sometimes it doesn't it's
important for you to know what are the
cases when people are using like and
this applies to many words in English
and this is why I'm teaching you a lot
of idioms a lot of slang words so when
you hear the native speaker you will get
exactly what every single word means so
write them down and remember them okay
and number five as I mentioned there is
so many accents I would say in America
like if you travel from west coast to
the east coast you won't really hear the
accent I can say that something is weird
about the speech but it won't be able to
tell what exactly but if you're in the
UK and you go from London to Edinburgh
oh my god you're gonna hear it
straightaway their accents are really
really tough first don't panic like it's
okay even native speakers panic like
when I was in Germany and I when the
Zurich people speak German in Zurich but
they speak Swiss German I couldn't get a
thing and it's okay it happens to native
speakers as well normally when you come
to a city you adjust to local accent and
you get the local accent so make sure if
you're travelling to the right place
because when I travel to Great Britain
um when I was 14 15 16 I went to those
language schools and I ended up having a
nice British accent when I was 21 and
then I moved to America and well it took
me maybe like two or three months to
change my accent to American one and
it's okay just be ready that if you
spend some time in a certain environment
you're gonna get the accent and if you
spent a lot of time in Scotland for
example in a small village in Scotland
make sure that um you try and sound more
traditional when you're talking to
people outside Scotland word up my last
advice for you is to expose yourself to
as many accents as you can and if you're
traveled to a big city like New York
like Los Angeles you're gonna meet a lot
of people and the more you talk the more
you the more time you spend in the
environment the better you get an
understanding access watch as many
movies and TV shows in English as you
can as I mentioned there are several
websites where you can do that now
flexkom you can switch on subtitles HBO
now is my favorite because on HBO now
you can watch Silicon Valley my favorite
TV show and Westworld which is also a
great one so you can buy subscription
there for like $14 and you go and watch
them and of course the best thing you
can do is travel and spend a couple
weeks or a couple months abroad while
studying in a local language school the
link will be below you can check out the
school's check out the pricing will be
happy
to help you and you know reach your
goals and dreams in English if you love
music get yourself a piano and start
playing and singing your favorite song
single on to your favorite singers
please comment down below with your
favorite movie that you watched in
English so that other people could get
some ideas what they want to watch if
you're not yet subscribed to this
channel there is a red button please hit
subscribe and please share this video
with your friends who are studying
English language and struggling to
understand native speakers please like
it and I will see you soon in the next
videos bye
[Music]